- [Instructor] The next workflow we'll review is Git Flow.
Git Flow is a popular workflow for Git
that centers around two long-lived branches,
master and develop.
The master branch contains
a copy of the current production code
and is tightly controlled.
Develop is the parent branch for feature branches
that are created to address a particular line of work.
Once a feature is complete,
its branch is then merged back into the develop branch.
When develop contains enough features to warrant a release,
a new release branch is branched from develop.
In the release branch,
bug fixes can be made prior to the release
in parallel to new work being performed in develop.
The release branch is merged into master
after the code is sent to production.
Finally, develop is synced with the release.
Additionally, Git Workflow allows hotfix branches
to be created for master for emergency resolution
to any production bugs that pop up.
Git Flow centers around releases
that deliver a releasable piece of software
from the short-lived feature branches
that get promoted to develop, release, and master.
Once the release is performed,
the master branch is updated
to contain the live production code.
Git Flow is extremely flexible.
While your team is performing final preparations
for a release, they are free to work on feature branches
without impacting code in the release branch.
Production bugs can be worked in hotfix branches
independent of develop which means merged feature branches
won't be deployed with the hotfix.
Git Flow allows work to be completed in parallel
by separating lines of code at various stages of maturity.
That's one of its major strengths.
Git Flow provides teams with confidence and stability
because it doesn't allow direct modification
of master and develop.
That's done by maintainers.
Instead, permissions on these branches are controlled
and limited to repository maintainers.
New code is introduced to these key historical branches
through merge and pull requests
instead of those direct commits by the contributors.
Finally, let's circle back to compare key differences
between TBD and Git Flow.
TBD leverages a single branch that's used by all developers
to avoid the distance
created by long-lived feature branches.
On the other hand,
Git Flow achieves flexibility and supports experimentation
by using many development branches,
particularly two long-lived branches and feature branches.
In trunk-based development,
trunks should always be ready to be shipped to production.
However, in Git Flow,
the only branch that is production ready is master
which is a copy of current production code.
The more incremental nature of trunk-based development
supports the practice of continuous deployment rather well.
With a highly automated CD pipeline,
developers are looking to ship code quickly.
Git Flow is a solution that is better suited for agile teams
that plan iterations and releases.
Moving forward with the course,
we will be leveraging Git Flow
because it is more common of the two approaches.
However, both workflows provide excellent choices
for establishing how your team collaborates with Git.